README.md, before:

# Chicken Bundle

This bundle contains various syntactical extensions and a small build
system for CHICKEN Scheme. It is very lightweight and it was intended to be
distributed with your project to avoid additional dependencies.

## Usage
### Adding chicken-bundle bundle to your project

First you need to download the bundle into your project directory:

```sh
cd your-chicken-project/

MASTER_PATH="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/AlxHnr/chicken-bundle/master"
curl -O "$MASTER_PATH/Makefile"

mkdir -p chicken-bundle/ && cd chicken-bundle/
curl -O "$MASTER_PATH/chicken-bundle/ch-syntax.scm"
curl -O "$MASTER_PATH/chicken-bundle/ch-target.scm"
curl -O "$MASTER_PATH/chicken-bundle/generate-dependencies.scm"
unset MASTER_PATH && cd -
```

### Project structure

Your project should have a src/ directory. It will be scanned to generate
the dependency file. See [features](#features) for more informations about
how to make the build process aware of your source files.

Your project may also have a test/ directory, which will be scanned to
generate rules for building and running unit tests. Unit tests require the
[test](http://wiki.call-cc.org/eggref/4/test) egg. See
[ch-test](#ch-test) for more informations.

When building the project, the file "dependencies.makefile" will be placed
in the root directory of your project. The build process also involves the
creation of a temporary build/ directory. Do not store any important files
there directory, otherwise they may be overwritten or deleted.

### Building

Now you can build your project using `make` or `make all`. Additionally you
can run `make test` and `make clean`, which will either test or clean up
your build.

To regenerate the dependencies, you must clean and rebuild your project.

## Features

Chicken-bundle adds the following syntactical extensions. You can only have
either ch-module, ch-program or ch-test once in a source file.

### ch-module

It is comparable to CHICKEN's build-in module, but is much simpler. It also
unifies modules with units. The dependency generator will search your src/
directory for such definitions and generate rules to build stand alone
compilation units from them. The build process also ensures that all
dependencies are handled properly, and that \*.import.scm and \*.types
files are created and used. Every ch-module will automatically import
chicken, scheme and ch-syntax. Ch-modules must be in the src/ directory.
The module name must be the name of the file with its extension removed. A
module can't be named "main".

```scheme
(ch-module module-name
  ...)
```

### ch-program

This is comparable to [ch-module](#ch-module), but with some differences:
the source file will not be treated as a unit and neither \*.import.scm nor
\*.types files will be emitted. Ch-programs must be in the src/ directory.

```scheme
(ch-program
  ...)
```

### ch-test

Ch-test is like [ch-program](#ch-program), but with the difference that it
takes the test name as an argument. Ch-tests must be in the test/
directory. Ch-test will implicitly use the test egg and wrap your code into
a test-begin and test-end block. It will also call test-exit for you.

```scheme
(ch-test "test name"
  ...)
```

### ch-import

Combines CHICKEN's import and (declare (uses ...)) statements with
automatic dependency resolving. This is how you tell chicken-bundle to
recognize dependencies for building and linking. 'ch-import' is only
available inside ch-modules, ch-programs or ch-tests.

```scheme
(ch-module foo
  (ch-import bar foobar)
  ...)
```

### function

This allows you to define functions and will add declarations to export
them from the ch-module. It allows you to annotate types. Just see the
example below. If you annotate types, the function relies on the assumption
that correctly typed values are passed, or it will lead to undefined
behaviour. But as long as you use only chicken-bundle specific constructs
to build your project, you should get at least type warnings during
compilation. 'function' is only available inside ch-modules, ch-programs or
ch-tests.

```scheme
(function foo (name age)
  (print name " is " age " years old")
  ...)

; Annotate argument types.
(function foo ((name string) (age fixnum))
  (print name " is " age " years old")
  ...)

; Annotate return and argument types.
(function (foo string) ((name string) (age fixnum))
  (string-append name " is " (number->string age) " years old"))
```

## License

The Makefile is public domain. All files in the subdirectory
"chicken-bundle/" are released under the zlib license. This includes
syntactical extensions and the dependency generator.

Commit message:

Added unit test informations to README

README.md, after:

# Chicken Bundle

This bundle contains various syntactical extensions and a small build
system for CHICKEN Scheme. It is very lightweight and it was intended to be
distributed with your project to avoid additional dependencies.

## Usage
### Adding chicken-bundle bundle to your project

First you need to download the bundle into your project directory:

```sh
cd your-chicken-project/

MASTER_PATH="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/AlxHnr/chicken-bundle/master"
curl -O "$MASTER_PATH/Makefile"

mkdir -p chicken-bundle/ && cd chicken-bundle/
curl -O "$MASTER_PATH/chicken-bundle/ch-syntax.scm"
curl -O "$MASTER_PATH/chicken-bundle/ch-target.scm"
curl -O "$MASTER_PATH/chicken-bundle/generate-dependencies.scm"
unset MASTER_PATH && cd -
```

### Project structure

Your project should have a src/ directory. It will be scanned to generate
the dependency file. See [features](#features) for more informations about
how to make the build process aware of your source files.

Your project may also have a test/ directory, which will be scanned to
generate rules for building and running unit tests. Unit tests require the
[test](http://wiki.call-cc.org/eggref/4/test) egg. See [ch-test](#ch-test)
for more informations.

When building the project, the file "dependencies.makefile" will be placed
in the root directory of your project. The build process also involves the
creation of a temporary build/ directory. Do not store any important files
there directory, otherwise they may be overwritten or deleted.

Before the tests are run, chicken-bundle will create the directory tmp/
inside the test/ directory. If all tests pass, test/tmp/ will be removed
again, so make sure not to store important data there. Unit tests are free
to create arbitrary data inside this temporary directory.

### Building

Now you can build your project using `make` or `make all`. Additionally you
can run `make test` and `make clean`, which will either test or clean up
your build.

To regenerate the dependencies, you must clean and rebuild your project.

## Features

Chicken-bundle adds the following syntactical extensions. You can only have
either ch-module, ch-program or ch-test once in a source file.

### ch-module

It is comparable to CHICKEN's build-in module, but is much simpler. It also
unifies modules with units. The dependency generator will search your src/
directory for such definitions and generate rules to build stand alone
compilation units from them. The build process also ensures that all
dependencies are handled properly, and that \*.import.scm and \*.types
files are created and used. Every ch-module will automatically import
chicken, scheme and ch-syntax. Ch-modules must be in the src/ directory.
The module name must be the name of the file with its extension removed. A
module can't be named "main".

```scheme
(ch-module module-name
  ...)
```

### ch-program

This is comparable to [ch-module](#ch-module), but with some differences:
the source file will not be treated as a unit and neither \*.import.scm nor
\*.types files will be emitted. Ch-programs must be in the src/ directory.

```scheme
(ch-program
  ...)
```

### ch-test

Ch-test is like [ch-program](#ch-program), but with the difference that it
takes the test name as an argument. Ch-tests must be in the test/
directory. Ch-test will implicitly use the test egg and wrap your code into
a test-begin and test-end block. It will also call test-exit for you.

```scheme
(ch-test "test name"
  ...)
```

### ch-import

Combines CHICKEN's import and (declare (uses ...)) statements with
automatic dependency resolving. This is how you tell chicken-bundle to
recognize dependencies for building and linking. 'ch-import' is only
available inside ch-modules, ch-programs or ch-tests.

```scheme
(ch-module foo
  (ch-import bar foobar)
  ...)
```

### function

This allows you to define functions and will add declarations to export
them from the ch-module. It allows you to annotate types. Just see the
example below. If you annotate types, the function relies on the assumption
that correctly typed values are passed, or it will lead to undefined
behaviour. But as long as you use only chicken-bundle specific constructs
to build your project, you should get at least type warnings during
compilation. 'function' is only available inside ch-modules, ch-programs or
ch-tests.

```scheme
(function foo (name age)
  (print name " is " age " years old"))

; Annotate argument types.
(function foo ((name string) (age fixnum))
  (print name " is " age " years old"))

; Annotate return and argument types.
(function (foo string) ((name string) (age fixnum))
  (string-append name " is " (number->string age) " years old"))
```

## License

The Makefile is public domain. All files in the subdirectory
"chicken-bundle/" are released under the zlib license. This includes
syntactical extensions and the dependency generator.
